README.md, before:

# Grocer

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/highgroove/grocer.png)](http://travis-ci.org/highgroove/grocer)
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/highgroove/grocer.png)](https://gemnasium.com/highgroove/grocer)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/badge.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/highgroove/grocer)

**grocer** interfaces with the [Apple Push Notification
Service](http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/ApplePushService/ApplePushService.html)
to send push notifications to iOS devices.

There are other gems out there to do this, but **grocer** plans to be the
cleanest, most extensible, and friendliest.

## Requirements

* Ruby/MRI 1.9.x or JRuby 1.7.x in 1.9 mode

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'grocer'
```

## Usage

### Connecting

```ruby
# `certificate` is the only required option; the rest will default to the values
# shown here.
#
# Information on obtaining a `.pem` file for use with `certificate` is shown
# later.
pusher = Grocer.pusher(
  certificate: "/path/to/cert.pem",      # required
  passphrase:  "",                       # optional
  gateway:     "gateway.push.apple.com", # optional; See note below.
  port:        2195,                     # optional
  retries:     3                         # optional
)
```

#### Notes

* `certificate`: If you don't have the certificate stored in a file, you 
  can pass any object that responds to `read`.
  Example: `certificate: StringIO.new(pem_string)`
* `gateway`: Defaults to different values depending on the `RAILS_ENV` or
  `RACK_ENV` environment variables. If set to `production`, defaults to
  `gateway.push.apple.com`, if set to `test`, defaults to `localhost` (see
  [Acceptance Testing](#acceptance-testing) later), otherwise defaults to
  `gateway.sandbox.push.apple.com`.
* `retries`: The number of times **grocer** will retry writing to or reading
  from the Apple Push Notification Service before raising any errors to client
  code.

### Sending Notifications

```ruby
# `device_token` and either `alert` or `badge` are required.
#
# Information on obtaining `device_token` is shown later.
notification = Grocer::Notification.new(
  device_token: "fe15a27d5df3c34778defb1f4f3880265cc52c0c047682223be59fb68500a9a2",
  alert:        "Hello from Grocer!",
  badge:        42,
  sound:        "siren.aiff",         # optional
  expiry:       Time.now + 60*60,     # optional; 0 is default, meaning the message is not stored
  identifier:   1234                  # optional
)

pusher.push(notification)
```

It is desirable to reuse the same connection to send multiple notifications, as
is recommended by Apple.

```ruby
pusher = Grocer.pusher(connection_options)
notifications.each do |notification|
  pusher.push(notification)
end
```

#### Custom Payloads

The Apple documentation says "Providers can specify custom payload values
outside the Apple-reserved aps namespace." To specify a custom payload, set
`Grocer::Notification#custom`.

```ruby
notification = Grocer::Notification.new(
  device_token: "...",
  alert:        "Hello from Grocer",
  custom: {
    "acme2": ["bang", "whiz"]
  }
)

# Generates a JSON payload like:
# {"aps": {"alert": "Hello from Grocer"}, "acme2": ["bang", "whiz"]}
```

### Feedback

```ruby
# `certificate` is the only required option; the rest will default to the values
# shown here.
feedback = Grocer.feedback(
  certificate: "/path/to/cert.pem",       # required
  passphrase:  "",                        # optional
  gateway:     "feedback.push.apple.com", # optional; See note below.
  port:        2196                       # optional
  retries:     3                          # optional
)

feedback.each do |attempt|
  puts "Device #{attempt.device_token} failed at #{attempt.timestamp}
end
```

#### Notes

* `gateway`: Defaults to `feedback.push.apple.com` **only** when running in a
  production environment, as determined by either the `RAILS_ENV` or
  `RACK_ENV` environment variables. In all other cases, it defaults to the
  sandbox gateway, `feedback.sandbox.push.apple.com`.
* `retries`: The number of times **grocer** will retry writing to or reading
  from the Apple Push Notification Service before raising any errors to client
  code.

### Acceptance Testing

Grocer ships with framework to setup a real looking APNS server. It listens on
a real SSL-capable socket bound to localhost.

You can setup an APNS client to talk to it, then inspect the notifications the
server received.

The server simply exposes a blocking queue where notifications are placed when
they are received. It is your responsibility to timeout if a message is not
received in a reasonable amount of time.

For example, in RSpec:

```ruby
require 'timeout'

describe "apple push notifications" do
  before do
    @server = Grocer.server(port: 2195)
    @server.accept # starts listening in background
  end

  after do
    @server.close
  end

  specify "As a user, I receive notifications on my phone when awesome things happen" do
    # ... exercise code that would send APNS notifications ...

    Timeout.timeout(3) {
      notification = @server.notifications.pop # blocking
      notification.alert.should == "An awesome thing happened"
    }
  end
end
```

## Device Token

A device token is obtained from within the iOS app. More details are in Apple's
[Registering for Remote
Notifications](http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/IPhoneOSClientImp/IPhoneOSClientImp.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH103-SW1)
documentation.

The key code for this purpose is:

```objective-c
- (void)applicationDidFinishLaunching:(UIApplication *)app {
   // other setup tasks here....
   [[UIApplication sharedApplication] registerForRemoteNotificationTypes:(UIRemoteNotificationTypeAlert | UIRemoteNotificationTypeBadge | UIRemoteNotificationTypeSound)];
}

- (void)application:(UIApplication *)app didRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken:(NSData *)devToken {
    NSLog(@"Got device token: %@", [devToken description]);

    [self sendProviderDeviceToken:[devToken bytes]]; // custom method; e.g., send to a web service and store
}

- (void)application:(UIApplication *)app didFailToRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithError:(NSError *)err {
    NSLog(@"Error in registration. Error: %@", err);
}
```

## Certificate File

Login to the [iOS Provisioning Portal (App IDs)](https://developer.apple.com/ios/manage/bundles/index.action).

Configure the appropriate certificate for push notifications and download the
certificate:

![Downloading the Push Notification Certificate](https://img.skitch.com/20120402-gtj3bkqi1kq92kgw2pbr5puk5d.png)

Open the file in Keychain Access, then expand the certificate to show both the
certificate *and* the private key. Command select so both are highlighted:

![Selecting both the certificate and private key](https://img.skitch.com/20120402-e8deartr2uhimaiatgccttkggi.png)

Control click and select to export the 2 items:

![Exporting the certificate and private key](https://img.skitch.com/20120402-mbmgjrybyym846cy58a9kpyxp5.png)

Save the items as a `.p12` file. Open a terminal window and run the following
command:

```bash
openssl pkcs12 -in exported_certificate.p12 -out certificate.pem -nodes -clcerts
```

The `certificate.pem` file that is generated can be used with **grocer**.

Commit message:

Add note about JRuby in README

README.md, after:

# Grocer

[![Build Status](https://secure.travis-ci.org/highgroove/grocer.png)](http://travis-ci.org/highgroove/grocer)
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/highgroove/grocer.png)](https://gemnasium.com/highgroove/grocer)
[![Code Climate](https://codeclimate.com/badge.png)](https://codeclimate.com/github/highgroove/grocer)

**grocer** interfaces with the [Apple Push Notification
Service](http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/ApplePushService/ApplePushService.html)
to send push notifications to iOS devices.

There are other gems out there to do this, but **grocer** plans to be the
cleanest, most extensible, and friendliest.

## Requirements

* Ruby/MRI 1.9.x or JRuby 1.7.x in 1.9 mode

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'grocer'
```

If you are using JRuby, you will also need to add this to enable full OpenSSL support:

```ruby
gem 'jruby-openssl'
```

## Usage

### Connecting

```ruby
# `certificate` is the only required option; the rest will default to the values
# shown here.
#
# Information on obtaining a `.pem` file for use with `certificate` is shown
# later.
pusher = Grocer.pusher(
  certificate: "/path/to/cert.pem",      # required
  passphrase:  "",                       # optional
  gateway:     "gateway.push.apple.com", # optional; See note below.
  port:        2195,                     # optional
  retries:     3                         # optional
)
```

#### Notes

* `certificate`: If you don't have the certificate stored in a file, you 
  can pass any object that responds to `read`.
  Example: `certificate: StringIO.new(pem_string)`
* `gateway`: Defaults to different values depending on the `RAILS_ENV` or
  `RACK_ENV` environment variables. If set to `production`, defaults to
  `gateway.push.apple.com`, if set to `test`, defaults to `localhost` (see
  [Acceptance Testing](#acceptance-testing) later), otherwise defaults to
  `gateway.sandbox.push.apple.com`.
* `retries`: The number of times **grocer** will retry writing to or reading
  from the Apple Push Notification Service before raising any errors to client
  code.

### Sending Notifications

```ruby
# `device_token` and either `alert` or `badge` are required.
#
# Information on obtaining `device_token` is shown later.
notification = Grocer::Notification.new(
  device_token: "fe15a27d5df3c34778defb1f4f3880265cc52c0c047682223be59fb68500a9a2",
  alert:        "Hello from Grocer!",
  badge:        42,
  sound:        "siren.aiff",         # optional
  expiry:       Time.now + 60*60,     # optional; 0 is default, meaning the message is not stored
  identifier:   1234                  # optional
)

pusher.push(notification)
```

It is desirable to reuse the same connection to send multiple notifications, as
is recommended by Apple.

```ruby
pusher = Grocer.pusher(connection_options)
notifications.each do |notification|
  pusher.push(notification)
end
```

#### Custom Payloads

The Apple documentation says "Providers can specify custom payload values
outside the Apple-reserved aps namespace." To specify a custom payload, set
`Grocer::Notification#custom`.

```ruby
notification = Grocer::Notification.new(
  device_token: "...",
  alert:        "Hello from Grocer",
  custom: {
    "acme2": ["bang", "whiz"]
  }
)

# Generates a JSON payload like:
# {"aps": {"alert": "Hello from Grocer"}, "acme2": ["bang", "whiz"]}
```

### Feedback

```ruby
# `certificate` is the only required option; the rest will default to the values
# shown here.
feedback = Grocer.feedback(
  certificate: "/path/to/cert.pem",       # required
  passphrase:  "",                        # optional
  gateway:     "feedback.push.apple.com", # optional; See note below.
  port:        2196                       # optional
  retries:     3                          # optional
)

feedback.each do |attempt|
  puts "Device #{attempt.device_token} failed at #{attempt.timestamp}
end
```

#### Notes

* `gateway`: Defaults to `feedback.push.apple.com` **only** when running in a
  production environment, as determined by either the `RAILS_ENV` or
  `RACK_ENV` environment variables. In all other cases, it defaults to the
  sandbox gateway, `feedback.sandbox.push.apple.com`.
* `retries`: The number of times **grocer** will retry writing to or reading
  from the Apple Push Notification Service before raising any errors to client
  code.

### Acceptance Testing

Grocer ships with framework to setup a real looking APNS server. It listens on
a real SSL-capable socket bound to localhost.

You can setup an APNS client to talk to it, then inspect the notifications the
server received.

The server simply exposes a blocking queue where notifications are placed when
they are received. It is your responsibility to timeout if a message is not
received in a reasonable amount of time.

For example, in RSpec:

```ruby
require 'timeout'

describe "apple push notifications" do
  before do
    @server = Grocer.server(port: 2195)
    @server.accept # starts listening in background
  end

  after do
    @server.close
  end

  specify "As a user, I receive notifications on my phone when awesome things happen" do
    # ... exercise code that would send APNS notifications ...

    Timeout.timeout(3) {
      notification = @server.notifications.pop # blocking
      notification.alert.should == "An awesome thing happened"
    }
  end
end
```

## Device Token

A device token is obtained from within the iOS app. More details are in Apple's
[Registering for Remote
Notifications](http://developer.apple.com/library/mac/#documentation/NetworkingInternet/Conceptual/RemoteNotificationsPG/IPhoneOSClientImp/IPhoneOSClientImp.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40008194-CH103-SW1)
documentation.

The key code for this purpose is:

```objective-c
- (void)applicationDidFinishLaunching:(UIApplication *)app {
   // other setup tasks here....
   [[UIApplication sharedApplication] registerForRemoteNotificationTypes:(UIRemoteNotificationTypeAlert | UIRemoteNotificationTypeBadge | UIRemoteNotificationTypeSound)];
}

- (void)application:(UIApplication *)app didRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithDeviceToken:(NSData *)devToken {
    NSLog(@"Got device token: %@", [devToken description]);

    [self sendProviderDeviceToken:[devToken bytes]]; // custom method; e.g., send to a web service and store
}

- (void)application:(UIApplication *)app didFailToRegisterForRemoteNotificationsWithError:(NSError *)err {
    NSLog(@"Error in registration. Error: %@", err);
}
```

## Certificate File

Login to the [iOS Provisioning Portal (App IDs)](https://developer.apple.com/ios/manage/bundles/index.action).

Configure the appropriate certificate for push notifications and download the
certificate:

![Downloading the Push Notification Certificate](https://img.skitch.com/20120402-gtj3bkqi1kq92kgw2pbr5puk5d.png)

Open the file in Keychain Access, then expand the certificate to show both the
certificate *and* the private key. Command select so both are highlighted:

![Selecting both the certificate and private key](https://img.skitch.com/20120402-e8deartr2uhimaiatgccttkggi.png)

Control click and select to export the 2 items:

![Exporting the certificate and private key](https://img.skitch.com/20120402-mbmgjrybyym846cy58a9kpyxp5.png)

Save the items as a `.p12` file. Open a terminal window and run the following
command:

```bash
openssl pkcs12 -in exported_certificate.p12 -out certificate.pem -nodes -clcerts
```

The `certificate.pem` file that is generated can be used with **grocer**.
